Design Proposal
A Procedure is Worth a Thousand Pictures
The Flower Project
Nhi Ngo
Tony Su
Technique Statement
In order to achieve our ideal images, we will break this project down into the drawing part and the coloring part. Three techniques of image creation in Scheme which will be used to complete this project are turtle graphics, image-compute and GIMP tools.
For the drawing part, the basic flower pattern will be built with squares or pentagons. The shapes will be differently positioned and scaled, and we decide to use turtle graphics with recursion to draw the pattern. In terms of squared flower, the turtle-polygon! procedure in the Assignment 7 will serve as a good helper procedure to draw different squares with different side-lengths. The recursion is based on a unit of four squares consisting of two bigger ones and two smaller ones. The smaller squares are placed inside the bigger squares. We will use a number parameter to call the times of recursion we want combining with a “when” conditional statement to order the turtle to stop when we achieve the wanted layers of squares. In terms of pentagon flower, we will recursively draw the pentagons inside of one another using similar idea of square flower. 
For the coloring part, we plan to color the entire image using image-compute. An idea, the radial blend, taken from Exam 2 might be applied here to show the gradually changing color of the blooming flower. There will be different combinations of colors both harmonious and inharmonious.
As indicated in the design statement, there will be a border for each of our image. A square border of the entire image will be drawn using GIMP tool. Nine different types of brushes with different sizes based on the width and height of the image will be called from various n to stroke the edge of the image with the same color of the flower pattern to show the unity. In addition to that, GIMP tool will be used to modify the flower pattern either into a 2x2 grid or not so that the contents of the image will be more abundant. 
The final image-series procedure will alter three variables including the flower patterns of different shapes and different layers, the irgb-colors used for the background color and the kinds, sized and colors of brushes for the edges of the image. Each of these three variables will be assigned to be controlled by one digit, from 0 to 9, from the parameter n (0 <= n <= 999) in the final procedure image-series and providing ten possibilities. The combination of these four kinds of variations will offer the ability to use image-series to draw 1800 distinct images related to our essential flower pattern. To get the hundreds' digit, we can use (floor (/ n 100)) and use a local binding to let the digit be n1, which alters the color set. To get the tens’ digit, we can use (floor (/ (- n (* 100 n1)) 10))  and bind this as n2, which alters the types and layers of flowers. To get the units digit, we can use (- n (* 100 n1) (* 10 n2)) and bind this as n3, which alters the types of brushes. When n is odd, a 2x2 grid will be created, otherwise, the image stays the same. 


